docs: refresh cli page (#9274)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Configuration/configuration-cli.mdx

slug: /configuration-cli
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

The Langflow command line interface is the main interface for managing and running the Langflow server.

The Langflow CLI is automatically installed when you [install the Langflow package](/get-started-installation).

## How to use the CLI

The Langflow CLI can be invoked in several ways, depending on your installation method and environment.

> The recommended approach is to run the CLI with `uv run` from within a virtual environment where Langflow is installed.

Author: No CLI in desktop.

* `--option 'Value with Spaces'`
* `--option="Value with Spaces"`

Boolean options enable and disable settings.
They have a true (enabled) and false (disabled) form:

* Enabled (true): `--option`
* Disabled (false): `--no-option`

For example, `--remove-api-keys` is equivalent to setting `LANGFLOW_REMOVE_API_KEYS=True` as an [environment variable](/environment-variables).

```bash
uv run langflow run --remove-api-keys
```

In contrast, `--no-remove-api-keys` is equivalent to `LANGFLOW_REMOVE_API_KEYS=False` as an [environment variable](/environment-variables).

```bash
uv run langflow run --no-remove-api-keys
```

### Default options

The following options are available for all Langflow CLI commands:

* `--version`, `-v`: Show the version and exit.
* `--install-completion`: Install auto-completion for the current shell.
* `--show-completion`: Show the location of the auto-completion config file, if installed.
* `--help`: Print information about command usage, options, and arguments.

## CLI commands

> The following sections describe the available CLI commands and any non-default options available for each command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections describe the available CLI commands and any additional options (beyond the [universal options](#universal-options)) available for each command.
```

Running the CLI without any arguments prints a list of available options and commands:

<Tabs groupId="Invocation">
  <TabItem value="uv (recommended)" label="uv (recommended)" default>

```bash
uv run langflow
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Direct" label="Direct">

```bash
langflow
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### langflow api-key {#langflow-api-key}

Create a Langflow API key.

> The logged-in user must be a superuser to create API keys with the CLI.

Reviewer: I omitted this line before because we have much more detail at the link. I think most users will be a superuser if they try to run this anyway.

For more information, see [Langflow API keys](/api-keys-and-authentication#langflow-api-keys).

<Tabs groupId="Invocation">
  <TabItem value="uv (recommended)" label="uv (recommended)" default>

```bash
uv run langflow api-key
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Direct" label="Direct">

```bash
langflow api-key
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Options

| Option | Default | Type | Description |
|--------|---------|--------|-------------|

> | `--log-level` | `error` | String | Set the logging level. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--log-level` | `error` | Enum | Set the logging level as one of `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, or `critical`. |
```

Same question about whether these should technicall be enum or not

### langflow copy-db

Copy the Langflow database files from the cache directory to the current Langflow installation directory, which is the directory containing `__main__.py`.
You can find the copy target directory by running `which langflow`.

> The files copied are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following files are copied if they exist in the cache directory:
```

> * `langflow.db` - The main Langflow database, stored in the user cache directory.
> * `langflow-pre.db` - The pre-release database, if it exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `langflow.db`: The main Langflow database, stored in the user cache directory
* `langflow-pre.db`: The pre-release database, if it exists
```

> If these files don't exist in the cache directory, then nothing is copied.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

combined with line 143

<Tabs groupId="Invocation">
  <TabItem value="uv (recommended)" label="uv (recommended)" default>

```bash
uv run langflow copy-db
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Direct" label="Direct">

```bash
langflow copy-db
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### langflow migration

Manages database schema migrations for Langflow using [Alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/), a database migration tool for SQLAlchemy.

The `migration` command has two modes:

> * Test mode checks if migrations can be applied safely without actually running the migrations.
> This is the default mode, and should be run before running `--fix`.
> 
> * Fix mode actually applies the migrations to update your database schema.
> This is a destructive operation that can potentially delete data, so run `langflow migration --test` before running `--fix`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Test mode (`--test`)**: Checks if migrations can be applied safely without actually running the migrations.
This is the default mode if not set.

* **Fix mode (`--fix`)**: Applies the migrations to update your database schema.

:::danger
`langflow migration --fix` is a destructive operation that can delete data.
Always run `--test` before running `--fix`.
:::
```

<Tabs groupId="Invocation">
  <TabItem value="uv (recommended)" label="uv (recommended)" default>

```bash
uv run langflow migration [OPTIONS]
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Global" label="Global">

```bash
langflow migration [OPTIONS]
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Options

| Option | Default | Type | Description |
|--------|---------|--------|-------------|

> | `--test` | `test` | Boolean | Run migrations in test mode. Use `--no-test` to disable test mode. |

Reviewer: does `no-test = --fix`, and does `no-fix = --test` ?

Author: Good question, I made a mistake here that `--test` is the default, so you actually run `langflow migration` with no flags, not `--test`.

| `--fix` | `no-fix` | Boolean | Fix migrations. This is a destructive operation, and all affected data will be deleted.|

### langflow run

Start the Langflow server.

<Tabs groupId="Invocation">
  <TabItem value="uv (recommended)" label="uv (recommended)" default>

```bash
uv run langflow run [OPTIONS]
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Direct" label="Direct">

```bash
langflow run [OPTIONS]
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Options

| Option | Default | Type | Description |
|--------|---------|--------|-------------|

> | `--auto-saving` | `true` | Boolean | Enable flow auto-saving. Use `--no-auto-saving` to disable flow auto-saving. |

Reviewer: For the booleans, I think it's a bit misleading to say the "default" is true/false when you don't pass `--option false` or `--option true`.

IMO the "real" default is `--option` or `--no-option`. I think it would be more helpful for the Default column to use one of the following styles for Booleans:

```suggestion
| `--auto-saving` | True  | Boolean | Enable flow auto-saving. Use `--no-auto-saving` to disable flow auto-saving. |
```

```suggestion
| `--auto-saving` | `--auto-saving` (true)  | Boolean | Enable flow auto-saving. Use `--no-auto-saving` to disable flow auto-saving. |
```

Controlled by the [`LANGFLOW_ENABLE_SUPERUSER_CLI`](/api-keys-and-authentication#langflow-enable-superuser-cli) environment variable:

* `LANGFLOW_ENABLE_SUPERUSER_CLI=True` (Default): The `langflow superuser` command is available, and superuser creation is unrestricted.
* `LANGFLOW_ENABLE_SUPERUSER_CLI=False` Disables the `langflow superuser` command.
For security reasons, this is recommended to prevent unauthorized superuser creation, especially in production environments.

<Tabs groupId="Invocation">
  <TabItem value="uv (recommended)" label="uv (recommended)" default>

```bash
uv run langflow superuser [OPTIONS]
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Direct" label="Direct">

```bash
langflow superuser [OPTIONS]
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Options

| Option | Default | Type | Description |
|--------|---------|--------|-------------|
| `--username` | Required | String | Specify the name for the superuser. |

> | `--password` | Required | String | Specify the password for the superuser. |

Author: My understanding is that is different from the CLI - that is for AUTO_LOGIN behavior. 
I have clarified here and am following up on that

> | `--log-level` | `error` | String | Set the logging level. |

Reviewer: add the list of log level options
